BuildNum
========

`Azure Pipelines Task` that:

- Finds `BuildNum.xml`
- Reads `BuildNum` element
- Stores it in the `$(BuildNum)` variable

It is intended for use with the [`JJ.AutoIncrementVersion`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/JJ.AutoIncrementVersion) nuget package, which allows .NET projects to have auto-incremental build numbers for versioning.

A build pipeline can benefit from this extension, by offering you the build number generated by `JJ.AutoIncrementVersion` as a `$(BuildNum)` variable. 

It can be used at your whim. For instance just to display it as part of the build/version/release numbers used in Azure DevOps.

But it also benefits from being passed to a Build task, e.g. with the `MSBuild Task` you can pass the `BuildNum` by filling this out under `MSBuild Arguments`:

```
/p:BuildNum=$(BuildNum)
```

This will keep the `BuildNum` variable from being incremented after each project in your solution builds. `MSBuild` has a way of deciding for us whether it'll use the initial build number or the new one, as multiple projects build one by one or even in parallel. That's why this Pipeline Task exists: to hold on to a frozen `BuildNum` value. It's basically a work around, but it's small and just enough to remove the problem.

This task is basically a `PowerShell` script wrapped as an Azure DevOps / Visual Studio Marketplace extension.

It has no parameters, only the output `$(BuildNum)` variable, so you can just drop it in and use it.

If you need something more specific, I can recommend the [Set variable with value from XML](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=YodLabs.VariableTasks) task by [Yod Labs](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/publishers/YodLabs). Initial parameterization like this should do something similar:


```
Variable Name    : BuildNum
XPath expression : //BuildNum
XML file path    : BuildNum.xml
```

The only difference is, it might not recursively search for the `BuildNum.xml` through the directory structure, but uses the literal path for that. And also, that `JJ.AutoIncrementVersion.BuildNum` has no parameterization burden, working out of the box as is with the `JJ.AutoIncrementVersion` nuget package.